---
title: EN16 Demo
description: EN16 features 16 encoders with push functionality. The unit can be configured with the combination of button encoder modes for a variety of applications.
---

import ImageLightbox from '@site/src/general-layout-components/ImageLightbox';

import control_main_panels from './img/control_main_panels.png';
import primary_module_operations from './img/primary_module_operations.png';

## Navigation in the Editor

Grid Editor has 3 main sections:
- Left panel for Profile Cloud, MIDI Monitor, Debug Monitor and Packages
- Center panel for the pages and Grid control surface
- Right panel for the module Configuration and Preferences

<ImageLightbox imageSrc={control_main_panels} citation={"<span style='color:red'>red:</span> change the sidebar tabs<br><span style='color:blue'>blue:</span> the interaction tracking<br> <span style='color:orange'>orange:</span> pirmary module operations"} styling={'w-full max-h-[200px] object-contain'}/>

These sections can be changed by clicking on the tabs on the left sidebar. Within the center panel - where you can see your connected control surface - the pages, interaction tracking mode and primary module operations are available.

To start configuring your module, you can either click on a control element within the Editor or interact with the hardware itself. The control element's configuration is loaded from the hardware. To change between the control elements, just click on an other control element or interact again with the hardware.
Based on the interaction tracking panel setting, the Editor will change the view - whenever you interact with the hardware:
- When **OFF**, hardware interactions are not tracked by the Editor, but the MIDI Monitor for example shows changes;
- **Event** mode will follow how you interact with the hardware, so an button press will show the button event, an encoder turn will show the encoder event;
- **Element** mode tracks only control element changes, but not event changes. 

Most configuration work happen in the right Configuration panel. Under each event different actions can be configured, which are the building blocks of Grid profiles.
After making adjustments to any of the action blocks, the primary module operations panel will show the Active Changes. 

Importent notes about these changes:
1. The changes are sent to the hardware, so you can try them in action. 
2. These changes are not saved on the hardware, without expicitly clicking **Store**.
3. If you don't store your changes, they will be lost when you disconnect your module. 
4. While active changes are present, you can not change pages.

<ImageLightbox imageSrc={primary_module_operations} citation={"primary module operations with 2 active changes"} styling={'w-3/5 object-contain'}/>



## Relative and Absolute encoder modes

On encoders, you have access the 

> For the different control elements, you can change how the hardware reports interactions with the control element. There are [button, potmeter and encoder mode ](./category/control-element-setting-actions) actions.